Let me explain the difference between "remember" and
"remind" in English. These are two words that
many of my English students in the past and the present
constantly confuse because they have very similar meanings
and maybe in their native languages there only exist one
word, when in English we have two words. So let me give you
the definitions first and then I'll give you some examples.
So the definition of "remember" is to think of a memory or
past experience; that's something that you do alone. Now,
the definition of "remind" is to make or to cause someone
else to think of a past memory or experience.
So let me give you some examples and hopefully it'll be more
clear. So let's start with "remember". "Hey, do you remember
me?" "Hey, do you remember me?" So really, I'm asking you,
"Do you have any memory of me?
Do you have any memory of who I am?" Another example, "I
will always remember my first kiss. *sighs*" "I'll always
remember my first kiss." "I will always have the memory of
my first kiss - that past moment or experience. Nobody's
causing me to do that, but I will always have that memory in
my mind. I will always remember it." Alright? Example number
three, "Did you remember to pay the light bill?" "Did you
remember to pay the light bill?" So I'm asking you, did at
any point, did the memory that you need to pay the bill into
your mind, and then, did you pay the bill? I'm sure you get
the idea, but those are things that you do alone. Nobody's
causing you to remember these things. That's something that
you do by yourself. That's the idea of "remember" is by
yourself, you think of this past memory or person or
experience or thing that you need to do or whatever it is.
But the idea is that you do it by yourself. Now, let me give
you some examples of "remind". Number one, "You remind me of
a girl I used to know", like that Usher song: "You remind me
of a girl that I once knew.
I see your face whenever I, I look at you." No?
Alright. I'm gonna leave a link to that song in the
description if you watch this on YouTube. I'll leave it on
my website, too, so definitely check out that song. It's a
good song, and it will help you understand the meaning, the
true meaning of the word "remind". Because when I say, "You
remind me of a girl I used to know", which means, "When I
see you, when I talk to you, when I interact with you, you
make me think of a girl I knew in the past. You make me do
that. I'm not just thinking of my past and remembering this
girl. But you make me remember her. Which means you are
reminding me of her." Alright, example number two, "Hey,
remind me to make a doctor's appointment for this weekend."
So in that case, I'm saying, "I need you to make me
remember, to cause me to remember, that I need to make a
doctor's appointment because I probably won't remember
alone. I need you to remind me or make me remember."
Alright? Example number three, "Can you believe I had to
remind him it was my birthday?" "Can you believe I had to
remind him it was my birthday because he didn't remember."
You see? He didn't think of it by himself. The memory didn't
enter his mind. I had to put the idea in his mind. The
memory - I had to put it in his mind. I had to make him
remember or I had to remind him that it was my birthday. So
in summary, the main difference between "remember" and
"remind": "remember" is to think of a memory, a past
experience, person, place or thing by yourself; to "remind"
is to make someone else remember or think of a past
experience, person, place, memory or thing. So hopefully now
the difference between "remember" and "remind" is much more
clear in your head but if it's not like I always say, feel
free to leave your questions below if you're watching this
on YouTube or shoot me a message on social media,
@EnglishwithKaizen, if you got any questions, and I'll do
what I can to help you out. But that's it for now, man.
Coffee with Kaizen #8 in the books and I'll talk to you
tomorrow. Peace!